At this point, you have
become familiar
with vanilla RNNs,
which are powerful
architectures,
but they're limited in the sense
that for long
sequences of words,
the information tends to vanish.
However, there are
more complex models
that you can use to
handle long sequences,
like the Gated Recurrent Unit.
Here, I'm going to introduce
you to Gated Recurrent Units,
GRUs for short,
with a comparison
to vanilla RNNs.
One important difference is that
GRUs work in a way
that allows relevant
information to be kept in
the hidden state even
over long sequences.
For example, with a GRU,
you'll be able to train a
model that takes the sentence;
ants are really interesting,
blank, are everywhere,
and easily predict
the word, they,
to fill in the blank
because the GRU
learn to keep the information
about the subject,
in this case, whether it is
plural or singular in
the hidden states.
GRUs accomplish this by
computing relevance
and update gates,
which I'll show you next.
You can think of GRUs as
vanilla RNNs with
additional computations.
They take two inputs
at every time step,
the variable X at time t,
and the hidden state h, which
is passed from the
previous units.
The first two
computations made in
a GRU are the relevance gates,
Gamma subscripts r,
and the updates gates,
Gamma subscript u.
These gates compute the
sigmoid activation function.
The result is a vector
of values which
have been squeezed to fit
between zero and one.
The update and relevance
gates in GRUs,
are the most important
computations.
Their outputs help determine
which information from
the previous hidden
states is relevant,
and which value should be
updated with current
information.
After the relevance
gates is computed,
a candidate's h prime for
the hidden states is found.
Its computation takes as
parameters the
previous hidden state
times the relevant gates,
and the variable X
for the current sign.
This value stores all
the candidates for
information thus could override
the one contained in the
previous hidden states.
After that, a new value
for the hidden states is
calculated using the information
from the previous hidden states,
the candidates' hidden states,
and the updates gates.
The updates gate
determines how much of
the information from
the previous hidden state
will be overwritten.
Finally, a prediction
y hat is computed using
the current hidden states.
Let's compare GRUs
with vanilla RNNs.
Remember that a vanilla RNN
such as this one computes
an activation function with
the previous hidden states and
currents variable X's parameters
to get the current hidden state.
With the current hidden state,
another activation function is
computed to get the
current prediction y hat.
This architecture is updating
the hidden state at
every time step,
for long sequences, the
information tends to vanish.
This is one cause of
the so-called vanishing
gradients problem.
On the other hand, GRUs
compute significantly
more operations,
which can cause longer processing
times and memory usage.
Irrelevance and updates
gates determine
which information from
the previous hidden
state is relevant,
and what information
should be updated.
The hidden state's candidates
stores the information
that could be
used to override the one
passed from the
previous hidden states.
Then the current hidden
state is computed and
updates some of the information
from the last hidden states,
and a prediction y hat is
made with the updated
hidden states.
All of these computations
allow the network to learn
what type of information to
keep and when to override it.
I just demonstrated how
GRUs decide which of
the information in
the hidden state to
override at each time step.
The relevant and
updates gates and GRUs,
allow models to
keep some values in
the hidden states for
longer word sequences.
This is very useful
to many NLP tasks.
GRUs are simplified versions
of the popular LSTMs,
which you'll be
encountering a little
later in this specialization.
Now you know that GRUs are
very similar to a simple RNN,
except that they
have two gates thus
allow you to update the
information in your state,
and it tells you how
relevant each input is.
In the next video,
we will talk about
bidirectional and deep RNNs.